**Legal**

To start creating our product for the NHS we first asked the UK government if we are entitled to use the Covid-19 data of their country. This was done on the initiative of our University after it agreed to work on their data. Also, to design the product as Software developers we had to use an IDE so we could promote our ideas and product. We used IntelliJ which it is an integrated development environment written in Java. As I said before our product is created for NHS so no one can have an access on this product except for the specific company for which the product is made. Our team decided to apply a proprietary license in which is the most restrictive, this license  is applied because our work may not be modified or redistributed, since its only for NHS. To promote our product, we had to understand all the laws so that we are fair to the government and to the world. We applied some principles from the Data Protection Act 1998 which is an organization in which protects personal data on computers. First principle, that was applied was used for limited, specifically stated purposes, that means controllers which is our team we have to notify the Information Commissioner which in our case should be a person from the government and inform why we are collecting the data. In our case we are collecting people’s data on how many people were affected from Covid-19 and how many people lost their lives from the pandemic, the reason that our team is doing that is to show the total of these infections and deaths so the citizens will understand the criticality of the pandemic and also to inform them how the pandemic affected their country. Second principle, that we applied is how accurate is our product, that means if it’s kept up to date. Since the government is providing the data about the pandemic our team is allowed to use the data and implement them to the product so we can show in graphs the infections and deaths so people can compare the numbers of all days. Third principle that we applied was to keep for no longer than is absolutely necessary. Our team decided to not keep the data when the pandemic will end. That means we will continue keeping the data and the reason is because there are a lot of scientists that they want to check how this pandemic started and how it was affecting the people every day. So, this is not in our hands but in the hands of the doctors, our team just help the experts to understand with the data we provide them how to solve the issue of the pandemic. But we assure you that all data is anonymous and will be deleted as soon as there is a solution. In addition, our products is used in a way that is adequate, relevant and not excessive, for example you will not see in our program any address of a citizen or something personal, it’s just keeping the total numbers of infections and deaths each day. In addition, our team as I mentioned developed this product in Java. In the development phase of the product, all API's used in the software are built-in API's in Java standard libraries. Furthermore, there is not any dependencies for the products software.

**Ethical**

Furthermore, ethical issues need to be addressed carefully, as they can have a negative impact on the image of the innovators and the product. Ethics refers to well-founded standards of right and wrong that prescribe what humans ought to do. Some of the ethical issues that could be argued with our product for are the people collapse psychologically and quit their jobs due to psychological fatigue.

**Health & safety**

It is important to give context to the potential health and safety risk with any product. The users’ needs to be informed on potential health risks associated with the product. To prevent injuries and hazards from occurring, the consumer has to understand some safety procedures that are designed to protect the user of the products. Because our product is software based, there is no direct risk from using the product. However, some common safety rules would be, sitting at an adjustable desk, taking regular breaks. 
